Hotline League is brought to you by
opened by HP hit me with that he get me
with that fire come on collars mark mark
did grab something you didn't even go
handle to grab them wait I did you just
didn't look Opie TSM fan is in the chat
opt SM fan where he called from Houston
Texas Houston Texas another Texas
persons Texan Texas after Texas before
he starts do you drink your milk with
ice in it
me yeah see I grew up with a family of
Texans right next to me I thought it was
the weirdest thing they would all have
ice in their milk but they explained it
was because it was so fucking hot in
Texas that they would have to put ice in
it because they'd rather have watery
milk then drink warm milk by the Sun
they were crazy or if it was all Texans
thank you you know that might just be a
small-town Texas thing where they may
not be able to like have like good
refrigerators or something like that
why just not buy milk if that's a
problem like there's other things you
can have for breakfast
or whatever you don't need the milk it's
gonna be warm a 100 percent at a time we
this day because of it I drink milk with
ice in it can we get into the oh you do
that yeah well yeah cuz I grew up with
them oh okay can we get into the get in
the show okay Opie TSM fans thanks for
being a sub what do you want to talk
about on the show I wanted to present
this idea because I've been watching a
lot of LPL this past season because I
bought into the IG hype train mainly
because like you know I've always heard
about rookie rookie rookie you know I
was just watching him I was like he's
playing Lucien they've been doing this
and it she's just dominating on it
but my main point is that I think na
should stop trying to copy Korea and
needs to copy the LPL in terms of macro
because I
feel like they're soloqueue environment
kind of cultivates more of a air-quote
fiesta style that we kind of paint the
LPL with the big brush about and trying
to practice this Korean style of like
calculated you know loss reduction style
doesn't really fit in a solo queue
before with hoarfrost get some of that I
want to I'm curious mark does do you
think in a just copies lck because I've
seen this many times before where people
all say like any loses because they're
just trying to topkapi Korea but I've
never like I've never heard a team or a
player or anybody like that be like well
we were just trying to do that lck stuff
so I'm just kind of curious about that
part of his premise
I think Korea is the most emulated
region in the world most likely but I
don't feel like people are just copying
Korea blindly for the most part like I
think people like when hecarim taught
became a thing you know was done in
Korea on whoever no phase team was he's
coaching them it started in China yes
sir in China then well so that's exactly
proves my point China yeah so I didn't
TT right in touch but like that was all
over reddit I know but like other
regions have done things to like
famously in season 3 Kassadin was like
played all the time by Europe and Korea
was like haha Kassadin sucks balls what
are you doing and then they lost to it
and then it went on to become
90% pick/ban rate for all of season four
so I get the timeline right maybe it was
season two into season three I forget
but either way like I'm not saying
everyone copies Korea but like if Korea
is doing it it's probably decent and
that's why then people just watch a lot
Korea but I don't think people blindly
follow Korea in that sense so I was
gonna say what that hecarim so it was
like it happened a little bit in Korea
there's like one team or two teams that
did it
and then gravity brought it over to
North America and they were the first
team start doing it over here and we
actually beat a bunch of people a little
I actually shout out to LS cop was not
coaching them at the time I'm pretty
sure um was he not competing
oh no I yeah right he might have I don't
know if all tech was was playing yet or
not
either way the point is we played
against it we beat it we didn't think it
was that great we played it the first
the first time they brought it out in
competition we beat it with like Kennan
top building ice-born gauntlet or
something right away so Kent like I
don't know so we weren't impressed but
then there's we scrimped against it more
like oh this actually is really good and
in hecarim top was like super meta for a
really long time and so I guess where
I'm going with this story is like no one
blindly like copies Korea like oh this
they played this thing I play this thing
now like it does usually go through like
a pretty I don't know if vetting process
is the right term but like people do
track things for themselves and
sometimes they don't agree that like oh
yeah Korea is doing but I don't really
like it it's just some Abdul and smeb
shit or like fakers playing irelia mid
no one copied that shit before it got
reworked and everyone's playing it okay
so taking opt SM fans statement and
making it sort of rather than drawing in
so much inspiration from lck should they
be drawing inspiration from LPL I mean I
assume Frost Koreans say yes because
it's LPL we do the crazy shit it's the
best I also think there's an issue where
yes I do think a lot of teams do you
look at the best region in the world lck
and they're trying to study or break
down what they're doing I know that some
coaches have gone so far as to create
presentations for their teams about
certain macro rotations or like a
composition or something like that but I
do not think it was as intensive study
as community might believe and I also
don't believe and this is probably we
have a flame I do not believe that
people also understand why Koreans do
the things that they do or why the LPL
does the things they do like in talking
with Western analysts versus like
Eastern analysts like papa Smith you and
I view the game almost completely
different than someone like a fishy or
JA and there are a lot of times when
we will like cross and and agree on
things but your region really does we've
kind of like a fingerprint on you and
it's so hard to say like when the LPL is
defined as a fiesta it does tilt me a
little bit because yes the the macro
strategy isn't as nearly as developed as
even you know some of the western
regions and especially not as Korea but
the thing that people really seem to
miss about the LPL is the beauty of the
team fighting and why I was always so
sure that fnatic would never be able to
beat RNG is because fnatic relied so
heavily on team fighting but they
themselves at least from me watching
their domestic season their playoffs and
even them at MSI they they know how to
teamfight so I'm not meaning this as a
flame on via fnatic but comparatively to
the LPL teams they do not understand
team fighting they do not understand
where to set up a teamfight they do not
understand the perfect way to execute
consistently in a teamfight in terms of
how they're layering their CC who is
responsible for zoning who who is
keeping track of what cooldowns and that
is why they constantly were getting out
team fought and I tried to point this
out on the analyst desk but I wish I I
wish I had taken it to the big screen
just to show viewers I'm specifically
for me it was fanatics inability to
flank in teamfights and whether that's
because of their lack of vision on side
lanes so they were constantly getting
pincer maneuver by RNG but even when
fnatic themselves attempt to penser they
just aren't as coordinated as they need
to be to the LPL teams when when
flanking from the side so I feel like
when I talk to a lot of western players
when I talk to a lot of western teams
which I have a fairly limited scope in
my examples with them so this is an
indicative of everyone it's more so
about like matchups about early game
about when you have a certain set up and
your lane assignments it's not
necessarily about the how this
composition works in terms of execution
in a teamfight whereas when I talk to a
lot of LPL teams they will sacrifice
certain Lane matchups a very famous one
was back when Lucian bought was
dominating everything the LPL would pick
twitch into it and their mentality
wasn't that twitch beat Lucian it was
that twitch loss solution solution would
be pushed in the lane which opened him
up for a gank and twitches kill crusher
with a jungler versus Lucian skill
pressure with a jungler in that 3v3 was
stronger
like literally the LPL's mentality is we
think twitch is a counter to Lucien
because he loses the lane and opens up
the opportunity for a superior superior
3v3 like how ass-backwards is that and
you can't say like that's the best way
to play that because that could also go
very wrong but like this is how
different the regions really think and
so to just say that in a copies Korea I
don't think is right like there are
certain things like mark is saying where
you see something and you kind of vet it
but it's still fitting within the
constraints of like North America's
understanding on the meta which is very
different and I'm not saying like
superior or inferior but just different
okay state that like I guess my you know
na has a lot to imprint on me because I
don't think it's a fiesta style and it
caught i watch LPL all the time I enjoy
it and I it's not only like good for
viewership and like fun to watch but
because like every game comes down
unless it's just a stop every game comes
down to who team fights better and if
you know like you're saying from the
get-go if that's the way the LPL concert
like designed is before like to have
this is the way our team fight works in
a you know and when we when we get to
that stage and we're not just trying to
pick Lane matchups that benefit us in
the early game and then we can try to
move there and rotate and do all these
things that other regions do I just
think that in my opinion I think it's a
cultural thing that one would be better
for just na as a product like just look
on at na LCS and see a lot more fighting
as opposed to like when we have like
teams going back and forth trading
towers and we get a 23 minute first
blood and then ones like Oh finally but
I I I don't know after hear another
thing you say I can understand why you
know you wouldn't want to just blindly
copy I don't think anyone blinded copies
there's a lot of really really smart
people in eSports but I think that if we
worked more towards the LPL and the way
that they address team concert team
fighting and stuff like that then we
would actually see more international
success because I think we have the type
of players who would benefit from that
type of either play style or those comps
no you go mark okay I think it's it's
like it's very important for the players
to like accept why
committing to a play style or something
like that or like understanding what
you're trying to do with your practice
and making sure that that's all like
leading somewhere because if if you're
like hey guys we're gonna copy China
because we don't think you'll ever get
that macro shit down like I think like I
think the more important than even you
know emulating China or emulating Korea
is like finding what works for your team
and like the natural tendencies for your
players and all that stuff is more
important in it if you have a team
that's like all right listen guys we're
echo fox we're not gonna fucking like
like you said go 20 minutes no first
Bloods that's not how we play I don't
give a fuck like you know I think
finding what works for you is very
important and like echo fox will never
be close to like what a Korean team
looks like and I don't think they should
be and so for a team like TSM it's
probably not that way like bjergsen
likes to play a very controlled style
that's who he is he wants that approach
and I don't think you could tell him I
just go play more risky dude like go go
out there and risk getting ganked and
like just try and scratch some 2v2 is
out mid lane cuz that's that's not his
natural play style and so like you would
have to get some serious buy-in for him
from for him to like want to approach
the game that way yeah I agree I think
that people so don't realize how much
power the players do have in kind of
strategy development especially in
champs like it is to my experience very
rare that a coach gets the absolute
final say on what a draft looks like
even though they get most of the time
the brunt end of the stick exactly they
always get blamed for shoot but nine
times out of ten I guarantee the coach
is like you should really pick leblanc
here and they're like rise and they just
walk it and then they it's like oh my
god this guy sucks but again it's you
the number one source of a coaches
information does come from their players
like I think you'd be hard-pressed to
find any coach that knows more about the
game in a micro level then a player does
so a lot of times when a team's identity
is being crafted it does have to do with
the players with their comfort with how
they think a matchup plays so when you
marry flaming a coach realize this
narrow and twitch chat says speedix
literally held a gun to my head it made
me provides every game you do did you
know yet that's basically the crux am i
think i just think i think i na could
maybe take from both and like ya'll said
it's definitely for finding what
playstyle works better for you I
personally think more you know I hate
the word aggression but more proactive
plays I think the most successful time
we thought of na team was going to do
well is only saw the first iteration of
TSM double lift with Bob frost and they
were just moving everywhere on the map
and it didn't look like you're watching
a Korean team or LPL team but it just
seemed like more proactive plays
benefits na teams and I feel like LPL
has that whether it's through their
macro or just you know their natural
playstyle as it as a side note just
random question should coaches have like
picking ban on a tablet and they get to
actually a pick and ban they get full
control like poison was like I don't
know I don't think it matters the like
Frost was saying the players are still
gonna like not necessarily have final
say but gonna have a huge input either
way so it's just like who's locking it
in because most of the time the players
not even picking their own champion
they're picking somebody else's so I
don't think that would matter I think
that battle I think I'd kind of be
awkward if like you're like hey you
should play that seems like I really
think this is better and then you play
it for him and then that's the
discussion that you have after a loss is
like well I really think we should have
picked this here and what that still
happens no matter what but it's also
like a very hard line and this is my
experience back in the day coaching I
don't know if it changed it's like more
resources and professionalism have
increased in the scene but once you lose
your players trust as a coach or it's an
analyst you've pretty much done so like
you almost must go to a different team
because of just again I think a big
problem was this idea that if you're
spending X number of dollars on a roster
the coach in my experience
back in the day was never the most
important part of the roster like pink
orangey if you have Susie and Uzi is
like the guy then are you gonna replace
the coach first are you gonna replace
Susie first even if there's like a huge
disagreement there yeah
kind of along that I want to get it
really quickly yeah really quickly just
like the idea that like of the
community's reaction to like people
always want North America to have their
own play style but then when they have
their own play style and it loses people
love to complain and say like why are
they playing gin and stuff like that
like I don't know if you have a
particular like opinion on if teams
should spend more time trying to read
the meta or spend more time just kind of
being themselves hmm it's hard to say
cuz I'm not in the conversation like
I'll speak directly to the jhen point
because I think a lot of viewers will
grab hold of the gin and be like why are
you playing this garbage ass champion
like why are you giving a free wins but
from a player's perspective and
everything that I've talked to players
about Jen it's simply like a safe laning
phase and I don't know if Peters still
in the background if you can like
correct me here but again to my
understanding and to players talking to
me it was the idea that if I pick the
gin I can either compete with certain
pushing power or I would have a safe
laning phase and gin compositions are
really interesting especially when you
use them with trundle your ability to
create long range picks but the problem
is is that the barrier on execution for
a gin comp is actually pretty high and
we were playing like much faster paced
games and so I don't necessarily think
that Jen meant auto lose or gin was
necessarily out of the meta because
every team seemed to be playing a very
different style have different priority
on champions but just that the the teams
at that high of a level didn't really
understand how to protect the gemlike
reckless having to play gin into a
Camille I believe or in composition he
was never gonna be able to do anything
they were just gonna jump on his face
and instantly kill him so from that
perspective if you're then giving fnatic
flame of why didn't you have a better
read on the meta and take the Ezreal
well guess what against RNG he picked
Azrael every single time and part of
that was a denial pick away from uzice
more comfortable on gin than necessarily
Ezreal and reckless did a good job on
Israel then I mean obviously they they
strategically like did that I feel like
so many people look at drafts and they
say this guy won dropped this
guy lost rap when for all we know the
coach could be walking away from both
drafting we got exactly what we wanted
they pick exactly what they thought they
were gonna pick and all the community
sees are these power picks are these OPP
Nixon like wow this team doesn't know
what the fuck they're doing they don't
understand how to draft flame the coach
famed players but again like you could
look at the weaker draft and the team
columns and the coach columns are all
saying it's just fine we got exactly
what we wanted they did exactly what we
thought that they were gonna do and then
it just comes down to execution I like
that point a lot to you just because
like and let you can have two team comps
that are like the same thing but then if
you have two different team comps one
will always look like the wrong choice
based off execution sometimes yep like
oh man we don't have much waveclear but
we have three winning lanes like if we
get ahead it doesn't matter and then
like their jungler dies and like some
skirmish and they're playing behind the
whole game it's like well hey your cock
didn't do it is supposed to do so look
bad so yeah I big agree we we need to
move on I think we've only gotten
through like three calls so far and like
an hour so I quantity or quality Travis
well I just I I feel bad if we have a
show with only five I don't know if you
know this Travis but when you have
females on females they really like the
quality of conversation these very
in-depth like getting myself in trouble
so opt I am fan thank you so I'm going
to try anyways for calling it thank you
shout out to Coby who's in the chat
right now spamming emotes easy proud
Travis gafford's sub you should be like
Kobe and also be a proud Travis Kathryn
stop